so I really like these new pixel phones
new designs this year obviously but also
new specs new features also new issues
but of course new price tags so we
really got to jump into the nitty-gritty
of what's actually good about them
[Music]
so we've been hoping for a real complete
Flagship quality competitor from Google
for a while now and on one hand it feels
like we finally got him but on the other
hand did you guys watch the Google event
announcing these things like I feel like
you can learn a lot about how a company
really feels about the products that
they're presenting by just watching the
announcement event and these felt like a
software showcase that just also
happened to have some phones to go with
it which I guess is not insane when you
know the history of Nexus and pixel but
it did the opposite of giveing me
confidence in these phones but now I've
been using these phones for two weeks
straight and I actually feel like I can
tell you what's good or bad about them
so Hardware is mostly what I'm talking
about when I say these phones feel like
flagships in a good way like it would be
easy to dismiss them as almost the same
as last year just squared up but there
are a lot of other little things too
like the screens are brighter at their
Max brightness 2700 nits for the pixel 9
and 3,000 nits for the 9 pros and then
the even bezels all the way around that
requires some extra consideration
wrapping the edges of the OLED panels
under those corners and there's a new
ultrasonic fingerprint reader under here
on on all of them finally it's way
faster and more reliable than the
disappointing Optical ones from before
the only thing I wish it's such a small
thing but I wish I could just unlock at
any time when the display is completely
off like currently you have to have the
always on display on or hit the power
button or be getting a notification and
then you can unlock with a quick touch
but like on Samsung phones that spot on
the display is always a hot spot no
matter what you can just unlock by
touching there so I kind of wish the
pixel would let me do that from a blank
screen too the haptics are really nice
again and the buttons are really clicky
this
year but then of course the hardware is
what's on the inside too so that is the
new tensor G4 chip and a bunch of extra
Ram now the tensor G4 isn't actually
that much more powerful than last year's
chip in fact you probably won't notice
the difference for 99% of the stuff you
do on the phone but what's actually
significant is a new npu that's way more
powerful and dedicated to AI tasks and
the way more RAM is also dedicated to AI
tasks I'm told a big portion of the ram
is literally reserved for AI stuff so I
will get to all that AI stuff in a
minute don't worry but just in the world
that we're living in where the meta for
a lot of these major new smartphones is
okay minor new improvements here and
there but mainly just a bunch of new AI
features and capabilities I'm glad that
the pixel also got a bunch of meaningful
feeling Hardware stuff too and then
obviously yes you do have the squared
off sides that I just know are supposed
to fit in with the iPhones and Samsungs
of the world I've said it before I like
the look and feel and that also applies
to this new camera visor Which is less
of a visor and I guess more of like a
shelf Island now kind of looks a bit
weird in some renders but you just kind
of have to trust me seeing it in person
it's fire I like it even if it will
totally collect dust in just the same
way as last year in the corners it's
nice oh and I forgot there is a new size
so you can have a pro phone but without
it being an XL love the choice I am a
little worried that that one probably
won't sell as well as the two extremes
but I'm just I'm glad we have the choice
this year be happy about it before it
gets discontinued so anyway it all
sounds pretty good but I do have a few
gripes which I'm allowed to it's $1,000
so the size of the batteries is about
the same as last year 4700 Mah hours and
the smaller size ones 5,000 Mah hours in
the big phone and I've had pretty good
battery life like a minus battery life
with the XL consistently five plus hours
of screen on time lots of heavy High
brightness use but they still don't
charge that fast like the XL is maxing
out at like 37 watts and it's actually
slightly slower on the smaller phones
now I'm not saying you got to go Thermon
nuclear level real me 320 W fast
charging light your phone on fire
charging or anything like that I'm just
saying fast charging would be nice 50 60
watts that's it I feel like that's just
not that insane but would be
significantly better for using the phone
now I also need to say pixel 9 has matte
sides with glossy back but the pixel9
pro has glossy sides with the matte back
we've seen the strategy before I just
think the matte sides look and feel so
much better than the glossy so I kind of
wish you could get like a matte on matte
look but that's just me and then one
more thing of course these phones start
at higher prices or at least the base
one starts at $7.99 but this is a $1,000
phone that starts at 128 gigs of
storage thanks Apple I guess that's the
standard now too but it's 2024 I would
have liked you know 256 to
start so cameras have always been a big
part of the Google Phone experience or
at least they have for a while now and
on Pixel 99's that's still true but not
in exactly the same way so all across
the board the pixel 9 and 9 Pro actually
share the same primary camera and the
same Ultra wide the pros just get that
extra telephoto the 5x zoom and the
primary camera that they all share is
basically the same as last year the
ultra wide is new it's 48 megapixels
instead of 12 but it bends down to 12 so
look shooting with these new cameras
it's great it's a quick smartphone
camera app there's a bunch of easy to
use modes it's responsive focus is quick
it's easy to get consistent good
pictures that process pretty quickly
what I mostly notice about these photos
is they still look very processed to me
like this is the pixel look now these
days with the last few Generations just
lots of HDR lots of contrast lots of
dynamic range also lots of sharpening
it's just not as natural of a look as
we've seen in some others it's just more
it's more on The Punchy side which is
honestly great for just sharing a photo
on social media but some may prefer a
more neutral photo the new selfie camera
on the pro actually feels like the
biggest Improvement as far as detail and
color over the regular pixel 9 which
doesn't get this but I'd say this is a
pretty nice selfie camera just so much
dynamic range but if you want to see and
hear what video footage from the pixel
sounds like I shot an entire video on
the autofocus channel on the pixel 9 Pro
XL in 4k 30 with actually no external
hardware I didn't even plug in a mic
this is just the built-in mics so yeah
just me holding a phone if you don't
zoom in at all the videos look great
they're sharp but obviously still very
processed and you can see it like
prioritizing segmentation and like
Lighting on my face and shifting colors
around so I'll leave a link below if you
want to watch that whole esprinter
review when it goes live and you might
as well subscribe over there while
you're at it for other car videos but
this is all part of the pixel experience
just like they're they're still tuning
these cameras they may end up looking a
little more natural in the future even
though it's been a generation like
that's one of the things that you can
get out of this phone but also when they
present these things it's all about the
features the smarts the crazy AI magic
editor and all this AI stuff on these
phones that's there's a lot to the pixel
experience so Google makes Android
Google makes their own Android phone
therefore the Google Android phone
should be the vessel for showing off the
latest and great latest from Android
right it's I mean Android 15 preview
just got shown off in February it's
coming out by the end of the year these
phones launch with Android
14 that's not a joke all these pixel 9s
are running the second latest version of
Android out the box obviously they
should be first in line for 15 and then
the seven years of promised software
updates but that's still hilarious but
every time I go back to using a pixel
you know I'm reminded of all this stuff
that I I miss when I use other phones
like call screening so good I mean I
know Samsung kind of has like a janky
Bixby version of it but it doesn't work
as well I've tried uh the now playing
feature also that just kind of ambiently
tells you what song is playing in the
background wherever you're at love it
and now there's all this new stuff that
they're adding that also may or may not
hook people to the pixel so call notes
is a new one pretty useful summarizes
phone calls that you're on with a
recording and the new pixel weather app
originally I I wasn't gonna give that
much of a chance to it but honestly it's
turned out to be just as good as
basically any other Android weather app
I've tried so you can get to it by
tapping the weather widget on the home
screen and it's got this really pretty
UI where you can rearrange the big tiles
and put the ones you care most about
closer to the top it doesn't let you
change your weather Source but I mean
I'm already nitpicking at a level that
only weather nerds will really care
about and they also threw in an updated
Panorama UI and the camera and I don't
know if anybody cares about this but the
temperature sensor in the pros works on
people now I don't know if you caught
that and it gives these live temperature
readings now as you move around an
object none of which is medical advice
by the way I'm actually impressed by
Google's commitment to this particularly
useless app like Google I know you get a
lot of heat for killing things typically
but I give you permission to stop
working on the thermometer app I think I
think you've done it but there's one
thing that again if you watch watch
Google's event that is really supposed
to stand the pixel out from the rest of
the world of smartphones and that is
because this is where Gemini lives this
is this deep deep integration with
Google's newest assistant here literally
the bootup animation on this phone is
the Google logo and then it turns into
the Gemini logo before it starts up like
the these are basically Gemini phones so
let's talk about it
so ignoring the fact that Google has
this horrible habit of rebranding and
renaming things in the most confusing
way possible it seems clear that Gemini
is the thing we should be focusing on
here like there's a lot of pressure on
this little Buck to be as useful as
possible and it actually delivers like I
have found Gemini to be very useful and
also rapidly improving over the past
couple weeks and gaining new cap
abilities and it's still it's very
conversational it remembers context it
gets questions correct most of the time
it's good I clearly need to do an
updated assistant battle because the
last one I did was with Google Assistant
not Gemini but see that's the weird
thing Google introduced this huge new
Gemini assistant to everyone but also
Google
Assistant still exists alongside Gemini
on these phones too like it's it's two
different
assistants matter of fact for a little
while Google Assistant was actually
better than Gemini at a lot of things
for what regular people were doing with
it because Gemini couldn't set timers it
couldn't get directions to places it
couldn't do basic home controls and so
Google Assistant would be the thing that
it would fall back on and that people
would continue to use was confusing even
now on the pixel 9 you can hold down the
power button or swipe up from the corner
to get to Gemini but the permanent pixel
home screen widget on everyone's phone
if you tap that microphone that's the
old Google Assistant but today now
Gemini can actually set timers and
alarms and it can listen and tell you
what song is playing in the background
when it couldn't before and it can do
home controls like changing my Nest
Thermostat temperature and turning smart
lights on but for some weird reason when
it's doing all of these new capabilities
it's showing me a little Google
Assistant logo in the corner as if to
tell me like okay it works and we have
this new capability but Gemini is doing
this through the old Google Assistant
which why even tell me that just do the
thing so anyway then also in the
settings you'll be able to have these
Gemini extensions which when you enable
them will let Gemini see more into your
actual life like through other apps like
Google Docs and drive and your calendar
and to me that's really where it becomes
the the most useful like I start asking
it to find emails for me and tell me the
traffic to my next calendar event and
things like that that is just like
talking to a normal person and it's
super useful but then Gemini live gets
into this slightly less comfortable
sometimes but also sometimes very useful
fully conversational mode with Gemini so
you just open it like this and it's full
screen so okay I've got this wasp nest
in my studio and I need to get rid of it
what do I do
wasps are pretty aggressive so getting
rid of the nest safely is the priority
do you know what kind of wasps are in
the nest that will help me figure out
the best way to help you remove it I
have no idea but they're all really
active all the
time okay that makes sense to start it's
best to try and figure out what kind of
wasps you're dealing with are they
yellow and black with a narrow waist if
so they're probably yellow jackets or
are they more brown or gray with a wider
waist those would be paper wasps you
know what I don't want to get that close
to them how about I just find Pest
Control nearby can you do
that okay so this is this is all at the
mercy of your internet connection and it
not hallucinating and and getting
everything right but when it does it's
actually it can be super useful
especially when you have like a bunch of
follow-up questions about something and
you want to just keep going then it's
less of a bunch of typ in Google and
just talk to it it's fine so I do think
Gemini is actually really good at this
point
I will plan on doing a comparison to S
the new Siri of course probably chat GPT
and probably some others in some updated
assistant battle feel free to get
subscribed if you want to see that when
it comes out but as of right now yeah
I'm I'm a fan of what assistant
assistant of what Gemini is doing but
the thing is you can do any of this with
Gemini on any Android phone matter of
fact Google literally demoed Gemini with
the Galaxy S 24 Ultra at their own event
like they didn't even try to hide it so
if that's not unique to pixel and it's
basically the Gemini phone like what's
the point of all this new npu power with
the tensor G4 and all this extra Ram
dedicated to AI tasks what exactly is
that good for well there are a bunch of
other AI
[Music]
[Applause]
tasks so here's how I want to go through
these there's a bunch of new AI features
on the pixel 9's and I want to just sort
of divide them into
useful meh and gimmicks based on my own
experience with them over the past
couple weeks I've been trying them all
using them putting them through their
paces and I have some thoughts so some
of them are really good and add to the
pixel experience and others not that
great kind of overrated so under useful
I'm putting Gemini of course just the
assistant overall it's quick it gets
things right fine then I have call notes
video boost and add me so video boost
actually seems to make a surprising
difference at how good the video quality
comes out of a pixel and what you can
get out of these uh call notes is is
convenient because if you have the guts
to turn it on on a phone call it can
record everything injust it all
transcribe it summarize it and give you
that after the phone call which is it's
just useful and then add me add me add
me is interesting it's good it works
pretty well I just I'm not sure if
people are going to actually use it or
if they're going to like try it once and
then forget about it and go back to
taking selfies but it does what it's
supposed to it's right there next to the
portrait mode it's easy to access in the
camera and so if you need to take a
group shot and you actually have no one
to take it for you this feature is
genuinely useful it just combines two
pictures and boom everyone's now on the
photo in case you were wondering yes you
can do add me with yourself and yes if
you pixel peep you can tell that it's
not perfect every single time there are
fuzzy edges like it's clearly using the
base frame from the first photo and then
compositing in the last person but in
general like the fact that Google has
leaned this far in and created a
genuinely useful feature out of thin air
by just abandoning reality in the pixel
camera app I guess uh yeah you got to
give them credit it's just will people
actually know to use this or will they
just go back to taking like a selfie
with everyone behind them so they get
everyone in the shot I don't know only
time will tell so then there's me
there's like the the okay stuff so I
have uh the new weather summaries in the
new weather app they're AI generated so
right at the top of the app there it
gives you some text to describe the day
for you so you don't have to look at all
those confusing numbers underneath
honestly it's actually kind of useful
sometimes but is this really AI like
maybe the sentence structure is coming
from an L or something I I don't know
whatever it's fine it certainly didn't
tell me about all this clouds coming in
probably going to dump some rain and
also ruin my lighting but then magic
editor got this reimagine feature that
lets you highlight any part of an image
and then enter some text to turn it into
something else completely different to
have your photos look like I don't know
a fantasy land or something that also
never happened it does outright refuse
to do some of my more dramatic edits
like it doesn't seem to want to
reimagine people ever but it'll happily
add objects to the background or change
the setting entirely if you're into that
I don't know what is a photo anyway and
then the last me but not least or
whatever is uh the screenshots
app am I missing something here I mean I
get the premise you have some
screenshots on your phone that you've
taken where you want to save some
critical information in them so they
built a place where you can organize
them all into collections which is
convenient you can search through them
you can have it remind you at a certain
date and time of a specific screenshot
and even link you back to the web page
that you took a screenshot of and it
makes all this information searchable
but I'm sitting here thinking shouldn't
this have been built into Google photos
like did you know that Samsung's photos
app already built in the smart linking
to any website you take a screenshot of
I mean don't get me wrong it it works it
does what it's supposed to my theory is
it's they're probably doing slightly
more analysis more processing of all the
bits of text and information in each
photo uh than they would with the normal
Google photos app so that is what
enables all the indexing and everything
and then maybe if it goes well they'll
also bring all that to the photos app
maybe or or if it doesn't go well then
they can kill it easily I don't know
whatever it's fine uh that's not though
as bad as my gimmicks section so Zoom
enhance have you heard about this
there's a new edit feature finally
shipping in the photos app that
encourages you to zoom all the way in on
a photo and then let it do its pixel
magic where it plays this whole
animation like it's going to reconstruct
your photo and find some hidden details
uh but it it kind of never does at the
end of the day all it does is sort of
Turn Up The Clarity filter and maybe add
what feels like some fake texture where
it thinks there should have been some
I'm not buying it and then there's the
pixel studio app which is just this neat
little app to generate new images
completely on device and again what I'm
not saying is that it doesn't work it
actually does work impressively well in
like 3 seconds on device it can generate
whatever you want it's just that I don't
I guess I don't really see a real
genuine use for this other than just
messing around which hey I honestly
that's fine too if you just want to mess
around and make a a meatball sub with
legs then you got it knock yourself
[Music]
out so before it starts pouring rain The
Meta with new smartphones in 2024
is you know slight improvements across
the board but then also some splashy new
AI features that are only available on
the newest one because the new chip and
the new neural cores and it's just
special for that reason so that's that's
what's happening and if you want you
could easily throw these new pixels into
that camp but the reason you'd buy this
phone is really just the same as ever
for a pixel it's the smartest smartphone
in the room and it's now also in a piece
of kind of nice Hardware that's a
pleasure to hold and use and then
there's a bunch of AI stuff on top that
you can try and either take it or leave
it it's kind of just up to you if you
want to get a bunch of use out of that
stuff or literally never touch it at all
I'm curious if you leave a comment down
below below what sort of stuff you think
you would use or buy the phone to use or
which stuff you don't think's that
useful at all at the end of the day
we'll have to see how it ages but I'm
thinking pixel 9 and 9 Pro is some of
their finest work yet also shout out to
ankor for sponsoring this video their
new Anker Prime lineup is their most
advanced Multi-Device fast charger
they've made yet that includes three
charging stations one docking station
one wall charger one power bank and one
new cable so the two that stand out to
me the most are the anchor Prime
charging station and the anchor Prime
power bank the charging station is this
desktop accessory that can kick out 250
watts in total among its four USBC and 2
usba ports and then it has a display
that can show you how much power each
Port is drawing actively and then it
lets you customize charging priority on
each Port so you can let it just sort of
auto adjust and make the highest
demanding items get the max charge that
they can take and then the power bank
has a 9,600 Mah capacity and there's two
USBC ports on it and up to 65 watts
output from this thing but it can also
be a wall charger too so that 1.3 in
display is going to show you how much
battery you have left and how much power
each of those ports is outputting so you
can check them out and the rest of the
anchor Prime lineup in the video
description but either way that's been
it I got this in before the pouring rain
started so I'm pretty proud of that but
let me know what you think in the
comments below talk to you guys the next
one peace